Karan Humpal CruzID:khumpal

Insertion Sort was alot shorter with the stopwatch reading 46.543 ms compared to Selection Sort which read 104.671ms. This is  what I expected to happen because as stated in the Lab Manaul," Rather than “scanning” through the unsorted partition in search of the smallest element, [InsertSort] scans through the sorted portion to find the best place to insert the next 
item."

This lab really solidied my concept and understanding on pointers. Last lab I was still very confused regarding pointers but spending time on this lab made me alot more comfortable with them. I also leared about Doubly linked lists and memory allocation. The most important part of this lab is properly coding the functions and implementing them correctly as well as having an good understanding of how pointers work and how to acces what you want using the struct and pointers. I found drawing a diagram of the linked list and its pointers made it easier to figure out what I wanted to do.

The first thing I did was read the entire lab manual twice on Sunday night. I spent at least 4 hours Monday and another 4 Tuesday gathering all the information I needed for this lab. Using youtube I was able to understand what doublt linked lists were and their importance as well as streghtened my foundation on pointers. By Wednesday I was confident in starting the lab and with only minor speed bumps I was able to finish the lab by Thursday morning. The remove function took a little more time than the other function but other than that the lab went very smoothly. I believe the difficulty in this lab was understanding what you are trying to do rather than the code itself. I do not know anyone in this class so I did it entirely alone like with all labs but I feel like this helps me alot bc I have no other option but to figure it out myself.

Overall this lab went really well and I believe everthing works on my end. I probably spent over 16 hours on this lab. I liked everything, I feel like this was revolutionary for me because I feel comfortable with pointers finally. I do not have any suggestions in altering it. Like I said before the hardest part of this lab was understanding the doubly lined lists and understanding how to access what we want to. The point distribution and lab manual were very helpful to me. I found using youtube and especially an account called mycodeschool prepared me the most for this lab.

